docs/usage.rst, before:

=====
Usage
=====

After installing `pytest_localftpserver` the fixture ``ftpserver`` is available for
your pytest test functions. Note that you can't use fixtures outside of functions and
need to pass them as arguments.

Basic usage
===========

A basic example of using `pytest_localftpserver` would be, if you wanted to test code,
which uploads a file to a FTP-server.

.. code-block:: python

    import os


    def test_your_code_to_upload_files(ftpserver):
        your_code_to_upload_files(host="localhost",
                                  port=ftpserver.server_port,
                                  username=ftpserver.username,
                                  password=ftpserver.password,
                                  files=["testfile.txt"])

        uploaded_file_path = os.path.join(ftpserver.server_home, "testfile.txt")
        with open("testfile.txt") as original, open(uploaded_file_path) as uploaded:
            assert original.read() == uploaded.read()

.. note::  Like most public FTP-servers `pytest_localftpserver` doesn't allow the anonymous
           user to upload files. The anonymous user is only allowed to browse the folder structure
           and download files. If you want to upload files you need to use the registered user,
           with its password.

An other common use case would be retrieving a file from a FTP-server.

.. code-block:: python

    import os
    from shutil import copyfile


    def test_your_code_retrieving_files(ftpserver):
        dest_path = os.path.join(ftpserver.anon_root, "testfile.txt")
        copyfile("testfile.txt", dest_path)
        your_code_retrieving_files(host="localhost",
                                   port=ftpserver.server_port
                                   file_paths=[{"remote": "testfile.txt",
                                                "local": "testfile_downloaded.txt"
                                                }])
        with open("testfile.txt") as original, open("testfile_downloaded.txt") as downloaded:
            assert original.read() == downloaded.read()


Login with the TLS server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Since Python 2 and 3, as well as different versions of python 3 differ in their implementation of the
client ``FTP_TLS`` and/or ssl protocol/context, we provide you with an example which works on
python 2.7, 3.4, 3.5 3.6 and 3.7
(note that, this example utilizes methods of the the high-level interface, which are  explained in
:ref:`get_login_data` and :ref:`get_file_contents`).

The below example test logs into the TLS ftpserver, creates the file ``testfile.txt``, with content 'test text' and
checks if it was written properly.

.. code-block:: python

    import sys
    from ftplib import FTP_TLS

    if sys.version_info[0] == 3:
        PYTHON3 = True
    else:
        PYTHON3 = False

    if PYTHON3:
        from ssl import SSLContext
        try:
            from ssl import PROTOCOL_TLS
        except Exception:
            from ssl import PROTOCOL_SSLv23 as PROTOCOL_TLS


    def test_TLS_login(ftpserver_TLS):
        if PYTHON3:
            ssl_context = SSLContext(PROTOCOL_TLS)
            ssl_context.load_cert_chain(certfile=DEFAULT_CERTFILE)
            ftp = FTP_TLS(context=ssl_context)
        else:
            ftp = FTP_TLS(certfile=DEFAULT_CERTFILE)

        login_dict = ftpserver_TLS.get_login_data()
        ftp.connect(login_dict["host"], login_dict["port"])
        ftp.login(login_dict["user"], login_dict["passwd"])
        ftp.prot_p()
        ftp.cwd("/")
        filename = "testfile.txt"
        file_path_local = tmpdir.join(filename)
        file_path_local.write("test text")
        with open(str(file_path_local), "rb") as f:
            ftp.storbinary("STOR "+filename, f)
        ftp.quit()
        file_list = list(ftpserver_TLS.get_file_contents()
        assert file_list == [{"path": "testfile.txt", "content": "test text"}]


High-Level Interface
====================

To allow you a faster and more comfortable handling of common ftp tasks a high-level
interface was implemented. Most of the following methods have the keyword ``anon``, which
allows to switch between the registered (`anon=False`) and the anonymous (`anon=True`) user.
For more information on how those methods work, take a look at the :ref:`API Documentation` .

.. note::  The following examples aren't working code, since the aren't called from
           within a function, which means that the ``ftpserver`` fixture isn't available.
           They are thought to be a quick overview of the available functionality and
           its output.

.. _get_login_data:

Getting login credentials
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To quickly get all needed login data you can use ``get_login_data``, which will either return
a dict or an url to log into the ftp::

    >>> ftpserver.get_login_data()
    {"host": "localhost", "port": 8888, "user": "fakeusername", "passwd": "qweqwe"}

    >>> ftpserver.get_login_data(style="url", anon=False)
    ftp://fakeusername:qweqwe@localhost:8888

    >>> ftpserver.get_login_data(style="url", anon=True)
    ftp://localhost:8888


Populating the FTP server with files and folders
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To test ftp download capabilities of your code, you might want to populate the files on the server.
To "upload" files to the server you can use the method ``put_files``::


    >>> ftpserver.put_files("test_folder/test_file", style="rel_path", anon=False)
    ["test_file"]

    >>> ftpserver.put_files("test_folder/test_file", style="url", anon=False)
    ["ftp://fakeusername:qweqwe@localhost:8888/test_file"]

    >>> ftpserver.put_files("test_folder/test_file", style="url", anon=True)
    ["ftp://localhost:8888/test_file"]

    >>> ftpserver.put_files({"src": "test_folder/test_file",
    ...                      "dest": "remote_folder/uploaded_file"},
    ...                     style="url", anon=True)
    ["ftp://localhost:8888/remote_folder/uploaded_file"]

    >>> ftpserver.put_files("test_folder/test_file", return_content=True)
    [{"path": "test_file", "content": "some text in test_file"}]

    >>> ftpserver.put_files("test_file.zip", return_content=True, read_mode="rb")
    [{"path": "test_file.zip", "content": b'PK\\x03\\x04\\x14\\x00\\x00...'}]

    >>> ftpserver.put_files("test_file", return_paths="new")
    UserWarning: test_file does already exist and won't be overwritten.
        Set `overwrite` to True to overwrite it anyway.
    []

    >>> ftpserver.put_files("test_file", return_paths="new", overwrite=True)
    ["test_file"]

    >>> ftpserver.put_files("test_file3", return_paths="all")
    ["test_file", "remote_folder/uploaded_file", "test_file.zip"]

Resetting files on the server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Since ``ftpserver`` is a module scope fixture, you might want to make sure that uploaded files
get deleted after/before a test. This can be done by using the method ``reset_tmp_dirs``.

`filesystem before`:

.. code:: bash

    +---server_home
    |   +---test_file1
    |   +---test_folder
    |       +---test_file2
    |
    +---anon_root
        +---test_file3
        +---test_folder
            +---test_file4

.. code:: python

    >>> ftpserver.reset_tmp_dirs()

`filesystem after`:

.. code:: bash

  +---server_home
  |
  +---anon_root

Gaining information on which files are on the server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you want to know which files are on the server, i.e. if you want to know if your
file upload functionality is working, you can use the ``get_file_paths`` method, which will
yield the paths to all files on the server.

.. code:: bash

      filesystem
      +---server_home
      |   +---test_file1
      |   +---test_folder
      |       +---test_file2
      |
      +---anon_root
          +---test_file3
          +---test_folder
              +---test_file4

.. code:: python

    >>> list(ftpserver.get_file_paths(style="rel_path", anon=False))
    ["test_file1", "test_folder/test_file2"]

    >>> list(ftpserver.get_file_paths(style="rel_path", anon=True))
    ["test_file3", "test_folder/test_file4"]

.. _get_file_contents:

Gaining information about the content of files on the server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you are interested in the content of a specific file, multiple files or all files,
i.e. to verify that your file upload functionality did work properly, you can use the
``get_file_contents`` method.

.. code:: bash

  filesystem
  +---server_home
      +---test_file1.txt
      +---test_folder
          +---test_file2.zip


.. code:: python

    >>> list(ftpserver.get_file_contents())
    [{"path": "test_file1.txt", "content": "test text"},
     {"path": "test_folder/test_file2.txt", "content": "test text2"}]

    >>> list(ftpserver.get_file_contents("test_file1.txt"))
    [{"path": "test_file1.txt", "content": "test text"}]

    >>> list(ftpserver.get_file_contents("test_file1.txt", style="url"))
    [{"path": "ftp://fakeusername:qweqwe@localhost:8888/test_file1.txt",
      "content": "test text"}]

    >>> list(ftpserver.get_file_contents(["test_file1.txt", "test_folder/test_file2.zip"],
    ...                                  read_mode="rb"))
    [{"path": "test_file1.txt", "content": b"test text"},
     {"path": "test_folder/test_file2.zip", "content": b'PK\\x03\\x04\\x14\\x00\\x00...'}]



Configuration
=============

To configure custom values for for the username, the users password, the ftp port and/or
the location of the users home folder on the local storage, you need to set the environment
variables ``FTP_USER``, ``FTP_PASS``, ``FTP_PORT``, ``FTP_HOME``, ``FTP_FIXTURE_SCOPE``,
``FTP_PORT_TLS``, ``FTP_HOME_TLS`` and ``FTP_CERTFILE``.


=====================   =============================================================================
Environment variable    Usage
=====================   =============================================================================
``FTP_USER``            Username of the registered user.
``FTP_PASS``            Password of the registered user.
``FTP_PORT``            Port for the normal ftp server to run on.
``FTP_HOME``            Home folder (host system) of the registered user.
``FTP_FIXTURE_SCOPE``   Scope/lifetime of the fixture.
``FTP_PORT_TLS``        Port for the TLS ftp server to run on.
``FTP_HOME_TLS``        Home folder (host system) of the registered user, used by the TLS ftp server.
``FTP_CERTFILE``        Certificate (host system) to be used by the TLS ftp server.
=====================   =============================================================================

You can either set environment variables on a system level or use tools such as
`pytest-env <https://pypi.org/project/pytest-env/>`_ or
`tox <https://pypi.org/project/tox/>`_, which would be the recommended way.

.. note::  You might run into ``OSError: [Errno 48] Address already in use`` when setting a fixed port
           (``FTP_PORT``/ ``FTP_PORT_TLS``).
           This is due to the server still listening on that port, which prevents it from adding another listener
           on that port. When using pythons buildin ``ftplib``, you should use the
           `quit method <https://docs.python.org/3.7/library/ftplib.html#ftplib.FTP.quit>`_
           to terminate the connection, since it's the `'the “polite” way to close a connection'` and lets the
           server know that the client isn't just experiencing connection problems, but won't come back.

Configuration with pytest-env
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The configuration of pytest-env is done in the ``pytest.ini`` file.
The following example configuration will use the username ``benz``, the password ``erni1``,
the ftp port ``31175`` and the home folder ``/home/ftp_test``.
For the encrypted version of the fixture it uses port ``31176``, the home folder ``/home/ftp_test`` and
the certificate ``./tests/test_keycert.pem``

.. code-block:: ini
    :caption: pytest.ini

    [pytest]
    env =
        FTP_USER=benz
        FTP_PASS=erni1
        FTP_HOME = /home/ftp_test
        FTP_PORT=31175
        FTP_FIXTURE_SCOPE=function
        # only affects ftpserver_TLS
        FTP_PORT_TLS = 31176
        FTP_HOME_TLS = /home/ftp_test_TLS
        FTP_CERTFILE = ./tests/test_keycert.pem


Configuration with Tox
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The configuration of tox is done in the ``tox.ini`` file.
The following example configuration will run the tests in the folder ``tests`` on
python 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7 and use the username ``benz``, the password ``erni1``,
the tempfolder of each virtual environment the tests are run in (``{envtmpdir}``) and
the ftp port ``31175``.
For the encrypted version of the fixture it uses port ``31176`` and the certificate
``{toxinidir}/tests/test_keycert.pem``

.. code-block:: ini
    :caption: tox.ini

    [tox]
    envlist = py{35,36,37}

    [testenv]
    setenv =
        FTP_USER=benz
        FTP_PASS=erni1
        FTP_HOME = {envtmpdir}
        FTP_PORT=31175
        FTP_FIXTURE_SCOPE=function
        # only affects ftpserver_TLS
        FTP_PORT_TLS = 31176
        FTP_HOME_TLS = /home/ftp_test_TLS
        FTP_CERTFILE = {toxinidir}/tests/test_keycert.pem
    commands =
        py.test tests

Using multiple FTP servers
==========================

If you need multiple instances of an FTP server for testing
(e.g. your code transfers data from one server to another)
you can create an additional fixture.


.. code-block:: python
    :caption: tests/test_ftp_copy.py

    import pytest

    from pytest_localftpserver.servers import PytestLocalFTPServer

    from mypackage import ftp_copy


    @pytest.fixture()
    def target_ftpserver():
        """Target FTP server fixture with out TSL."""
        server = PytestLocalFTPServer(username="target_user", password="target_password")
        yield server
        server.stop()


    @pytest.fixture()
    def target_ftpserver_TLS():
        """Target FTP server fixture with TSL."""
        server = PytestLocalFTPServer(
            username="target_user", password="target_password", use_TLS=True
        )
        yield server
        server.stop()


    def test_ftp_copy(
        ftpserver: PytestLocalFTPServer, target_ftpserver: PytestLocalFTPServer
    ):
        """Copy from one server to another."""
        ftpserver.put_files(
            ["test_folder/test_file1", "test_folder/test_file2"], anon=False
        )
        print(list(ftpserver.get_file_contents()))

        ftp_copy(ftpserver.get_login_data(), target_ftpserver.get_login_data())

        assert list(ftpserver.get_file_contents()) == list(
            target_ftpserver.get_file_contents()
        )

Commit message:

Only run test_multiple_servers_TLS on linux and add known limitations to docs

docs/usage.rst, after:

=====
Usage
=====

After installing `pytest_localftpserver` the fixture ``ftpserver`` is available for
your pytest test functions. Note that you can't use fixtures outside of functions and
need to pass them as arguments.

Basic usage
===========

A basic example of using `pytest_localftpserver` would be, if you wanted to test code,
which uploads a file to a FTP-server.

.. code-block:: python

    import os


    def test_your_code_to_upload_files(ftpserver):
        your_code_to_upload_files(host="localhost",
                                  port=ftpserver.server_port,
                                  username=ftpserver.username,
                                  password=ftpserver.password,
                                  files=["testfile.txt"])

        uploaded_file_path = os.path.join(ftpserver.server_home, "testfile.txt")
        with open("testfile.txt") as original, open(uploaded_file_path) as uploaded:
            assert original.read() == uploaded.read()

.. note::  Like most public FTP-servers `pytest_localftpserver` doesn't allow the anonymous
           user to upload files. The anonymous user is only allowed to browse the folder structure
           and download files. If you want to upload files you need to use the registered user,
           with its password.

An other common use case would be retrieving a file from a FTP-server.

.. code-block:: python

    import os
    from shutil import copyfile


    def test_your_code_retrieving_files(ftpserver):
        dest_path = os.path.join(ftpserver.anon_root, "testfile.txt")
        copyfile("testfile.txt", dest_path)
        your_code_retrieving_files(host="localhost",
                                   port=ftpserver.server_port
                                   file_paths=[{"remote": "testfile.txt",
                                                "local": "testfile_downloaded.txt"
                                                }])
        with open("testfile.txt") as original, open("testfile_downloaded.txt") as downloaded:
            assert original.read() == downloaded.read()


Login with the TLS server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Since Python 2 and 3, as well as different versions of python 3 differ in their implementation of the
client ``FTP_TLS`` and/or ssl protocol/context, we provide you with an example which works on
python 2.7, 3.4, 3.5 3.6 and 3.7
(note that, this example utilizes methods of the the high-level interface, which are  explained in
:ref:`get_login_data` and :ref:`get_file_contents`).

The below example test logs into the TLS ftpserver, creates the file ``testfile.txt``, with content 'test text' and
checks if it was written properly.

.. code-block:: python

    import sys
    from ftplib import FTP_TLS

    if sys.version_info[0] == 3:
        PYTHON3 = True
    else:
        PYTHON3 = False

    if PYTHON3:
        from ssl import SSLContext
        try:
            from ssl import PROTOCOL_TLS
        except Exception:
            from ssl import PROTOCOL_SSLv23 as PROTOCOL_TLS


    def test_TLS_login(ftpserver_TLS):
        if PYTHON3:
            ssl_context = SSLContext(PROTOCOL_TLS)
            ssl_context.load_cert_chain(certfile=DEFAULT_CERTFILE)
            ftp = FTP_TLS(context=ssl_context)
        else:
            ftp = FTP_TLS(certfile=DEFAULT_CERTFILE)

        login_dict = ftpserver_TLS.get_login_data()
        ftp.connect(login_dict["host"], login_dict["port"])
        ftp.login(login_dict["user"], login_dict["passwd"])
        ftp.prot_p()
        ftp.cwd("/")
        filename = "testfile.txt"
        file_path_local = tmpdir.join(filename)
        file_path_local.write("test text")
        with open(str(file_path_local), "rb") as f:
            ftp.storbinary("STOR "+filename, f)
        ftp.quit()
        file_list = list(ftpserver_TLS.get_file_contents()
        assert file_list == [{"path": "testfile.txt", "content": "test text"}]


High-Level Interface
====================

To allow you a faster and more comfortable handling of common ftp tasks a high-level
interface was implemented. Most of the following methods have the keyword ``anon``, which
allows to switch between the registered (`anon=False`) and the anonymous (`anon=True`) user.
For more information on how those methods work, take a look at the :ref:`API Documentation` .

.. note::  The following examples aren't working code, since the aren't called from
           within a function, which means that the ``ftpserver`` fixture isn't available.
           They are thought to be a quick overview of the available functionality and
           its output.

.. _get_login_data:

Getting login credentials
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To quickly get all needed login data you can use ``get_login_data``, which will either return
a dict or an url to log into the ftp::

    >>> ftpserver.get_login_data()
    {"host": "localhost", "port": 8888, "user": "fakeusername", "passwd": "qweqwe"}

    >>> ftpserver.get_login_data(style="url", anon=False)
    ftp://fakeusername:qweqwe@localhost:8888

    >>> ftpserver.get_login_data(style="url", anon=True)
    ftp://localhost:8888


Populating the FTP server with files and folders
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To test ftp download capabilities of your code, you might want to populate the files on the server.
To "upload" files to the server you can use the method ``put_files``::


    >>> ftpserver.put_files("test_folder/test_file", style="rel_path", anon=False)
    ["test_file"]

    >>> ftpserver.put_files("test_folder/test_file", style="url", anon=False)
    ["ftp://fakeusername:qweqwe@localhost:8888/test_file"]

    >>> ftpserver.put_files("test_folder/test_file", style="url", anon=True)
    ["ftp://localhost:8888/test_file"]

    >>> ftpserver.put_files({"src": "test_folder/test_file",
    ...                      "dest": "remote_folder/uploaded_file"},
    ...                     style="url", anon=True)
    ["ftp://localhost:8888/remote_folder/uploaded_file"]

    >>> ftpserver.put_files("test_folder/test_file", return_content=True)
    [{"path": "test_file", "content": "some text in test_file"}]

    >>> ftpserver.put_files("test_file.zip", return_content=True, read_mode="rb")
    [{"path": "test_file.zip", "content": b'PK\\x03\\x04\\x14\\x00\\x00...'}]

    >>> ftpserver.put_files("test_file", return_paths="new")
    UserWarning: test_file does already exist and won't be overwritten.
        Set `overwrite` to True to overwrite it anyway.
    []

    >>> ftpserver.put_files("test_file", return_paths="new", overwrite=True)
    ["test_file"]

    >>> ftpserver.put_files("test_file3", return_paths="all")
    ["test_file", "remote_folder/uploaded_file", "test_file.zip"]

Resetting files on the server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Since ``ftpserver`` is a module scope fixture, you might want to make sure that uploaded files
get deleted after/before a test. This can be done by using the method ``reset_tmp_dirs``.

`filesystem before`:

.. code:: bash

    +---server_home
    |   +---test_file1
    |   +---test_folder
    |       +---test_file2
    |
    +---anon_root
        +---test_file3
        +---test_folder
            +---test_file4

.. code:: python

    >>> ftpserver.reset_tmp_dirs()

`filesystem after`:

.. code:: bash

  +---server_home
  |
  +---anon_root

Gaining information on which files are on the server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you want to know which files are on the server, i.e. if you want to know if your
file upload functionality is working, you can use the ``get_file_paths`` method, which will
yield the paths to all files on the server.

.. code:: bash

      filesystem
      +---server_home
      |   +---test_file1
      |   +---test_folder
      |       +---test_file2
      |
      +---anon_root
          +---test_file3
          +---test_folder
              +---test_file4

.. code:: python

    >>> list(ftpserver.get_file_paths(style="rel_path", anon=False))
    ["test_file1", "test_folder/test_file2"]

    >>> list(ftpserver.get_file_paths(style="rel_path", anon=True))
    ["test_file3", "test_folder/test_file4"]

.. _get_file_contents:

Gaining information about the content of files on the server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you are interested in the content of a specific file, multiple files or all files,
i.e. to verify that your file upload functionality did work properly, you can use the
``get_file_contents`` method.

.. code:: bash

  filesystem
  +---server_home
      +---test_file1.txt
      +---test_folder
          +---test_file2.zip


.. code:: python

    >>> list(ftpserver.get_file_contents())
    [{"path": "test_file1.txt", "content": "test text"},
     {"path": "test_folder/test_file2.txt", "content": "test text2"}]

    >>> list(ftpserver.get_file_contents("test_file1.txt"))
    [{"path": "test_file1.txt", "content": "test text"}]

    >>> list(ftpserver.get_file_contents("test_file1.txt", style="url"))
    [{"path": "ftp://fakeusername:qweqwe@localhost:8888/test_file1.txt",
      "content": "test text"}]

    >>> list(ftpserver.get_file_contents(["test_file1.txt", "test_folder/test_file2.zip"],
    ...                                  read_mode="rb"))
    [{"path": "test_file1.txt", "content": b"test text"},
     {"path": "test_folder/test_file2.zip", "content": b'PK\\x03\\x04\\x14\\x00\\x00...'}]



Configuration
=============

To configure custom values for for the username, the users password, the ftp port and/or
the location of the users home folder on the local storage, you need to set the environment
variables ``FTP_USER``, ``FTP_PASS``, ``FTP_PORT``, ``FTP_HOME``, ``FTP_FIXTURE_SCOPE``,
``FTP_PORT_TLS``, ``FTP_HOME_TLS`` and ``FTP_CERTFILE``.


=====================   =============================================================================
Environment variable    Usage
=====================   =============================================================================
``FTP_USER``            Username of the registered user.
``FTP_PASS``            Password of the registered user.
``FTP_PORT``            Port for the normal ftp server to run on.
``FTP_HOME``            Home folder (host system) of the registered user.
``FTP_FIXTURE_SCOPE``   Scope/lifetime of the fixture.
``FTP_PORT_TLS``        Port for the TLS ftp server to run on.
``FTP_HOME_TLS``        Home folder (host system) of the registered user, used by the TLS ftp server.
``FTP_CERTFILE``        Certificate (host system) to be used by the TLS ftp server.
=====================   =============================================================================

You can either set environment variables on a system level or use tools such as
`pytest-env <https://pypi.org/project/pytest-env/>`_ or
`tox <https://pypi.org/project/tox/>`_, which would be the recommended way.

.. note::  You might run into ``OSError: [Errno 48] Address already in use`` when setting a fixed port
           (``FTP_PORT``/ ``FTP_PORT_TLS``).
           This is due to the server still listening on that port, which prevents it from adding another listener
           on that port. When using pythons buildin ``ftplib``, you should use the
           `quit method <https://docs.python.org/3.7/library/ftplib.html#ftplib.FTP.quit>`_
           to terminate the connection, since it's the `'the “polite” way to close a connection'` and lets the
           server know that the client isn't just experiencing connection problems, but won't come back.

Configuration with pytest-env
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The configuration of pytest-env is done in the ``pytest.ini`` file.
The following example configuration will use the username ``benz``, the password ``erni1``,
the ftp port ``31175`` and the home folder ``/home/ftp_test``.
For the encrypted version of the fixture it uses port ``31176``, the home folder ``/home/ftp_test`` and
the certificate ``./tests/test_keycert.pem``

.. code-block:: ini
    :caption: pytest.ini

    [pytest]
    env =
        FTP_USER=benz
        FTP_PASS=erni1
        FTP_HOME = /home/ftp_test
        FTP_PORT=31175
        FTP_FIXTURE_SCOPE=function
        # only affects ftpserver_TLS
        FTP_PORT_TLS = 31176
        FTP_HOME_TLS = /home/ftp_test_TLS
        FTP_CERTFILE = ./tests/test_keycert.pem


Configuration with Tox
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The configuration of tox is done in the ``tox.ini`` file.
The following example configuration will run the tests in the folder ``tests`` on
python 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7 and use the username ``benz``, the password ``erni1``,
the tempfolder of each virtual environment the tests are run in (``{envtmpdir}``) and
the ftp port ``31175``.
For the encrypted version of the fixture it uses port ``31176`` and the certificate
``{toxinidir}/tests/test_keycert.pem``

.. code-block:: ini
    :caption: tox.ini

    [tox]
    envlist = py{35,36,37}

    [testenv]
    setenv =
        FTP_USER=benz
        FTP_PASS=erni1
        FTP_HOME = {envtmpdir}
        FTP_PORT=31175
        FTP_FIXTURE_SCOPE=function
        # only affects ftpserver_TLS
        FTP_PORT_TLS = 31176
        FTP_HOME_TLS = /home/ftp_test_TLS
        FTP_CERTFILE = {toxinidir}/tests/test_keycert.pem
    commands =
        py.test tests

Using multiple FTP servers
==========================

If you need multiple instances of an FTP server for testing
(e.g. your code transfers data from one server to another)
you can create an additional fixture.

.. note::

    Currently multiple TLS servers are only supported on Linux.


.. code-block:: python
    :caption: tests/test_ftp_copy.py

    import pytest

    from pytest_localftpserver.servers import PytestLocalFTPServer

    from mypackage import ftp_copy


    @pytest.fixture()
    def target_ftpserver():
        """Target FTP server fixture with out TSL."""
        server = PytestLocalFTPServer(username="target_user", password="target_password")
        yield server
        server.stop()


    @pytest.fixture()
    def target_ftpserver_TLS():
        """Target FTP server fixture with TSL."""
        server = PytestLocalFTPServer(
            username="target_user", password="target_password", use_TLS=True
        )
        yield server
        server.stop()


    def test_ftp_copy(
        ftpserver: PytestLocalFTPServer, target_ftpserver: PytestLocalFTPServer
    ):
        """Copy from one server to another."""
        ftpserver.put_files(
            ["test_folder/test_file1", "test_folder/test_file2"], anon=False
        )
        print(list(ftpserver.get_file_contents()))

        ftp_copy(ftpserver.get_login_data(), target_ftpserver.get_login_data())

        assert list(ftpserver.get_file_contents()) == list(
            target_ftpserver.get_file_contents()
        )
